h1. About Simple Blog

*Simple Blog RoR* is a very efficient lightweight blogging system built in Ruby on Rails. The server footprint is extremely small ensuring short load times and better server health, not to mention user experience.

*Simple Blog RoR* also is very tightly integrated with Facebook and Twitter allowing for seamless integration with those platforms. It allows login via Facebook out-of-the-box.

Additionally there is a lot of other support such as:

* multiple categories,
* tag suggestion,
* aggressive spam prevention
* threaded comments
* clickstream
* full SEO integration
* localization of the entire interface
* email posting
* efficient caching using memcached
* other extensive social features as favoriting 
* stores all uploaded images on S3
* efficient comment notification framework to foster dialogue 
* built-in search with the ability to use MySQL or Sphinx for search

h3. CURRENT VERSION: 1.0

h2. Installation:

To install Simple Blog follow these instructions.

* "Simple Installation":https://github.com/eriksundelof/Simple-Blog/wiki/Basic-Installation
* "Optional Installations":https://github.com/eriksundelof/Simple-Blog/wiki/Optional-Installations

h2. Requirements

Simple Blog has the following technical requirements:

	1. Rails 2.3.8
	2. Memcached*
	3. MySQL
	4. ImageMagick

*You may exclude this but you will need to contact me at webmaster@sundelof.com for instructions how to. Excluding memcached will strongly effect the performance why I do not recommend it.

Installation instructions for reaching the technical requirements are found here "Requirements: Installation":https://github.com/eriksundelof/Simple-Blog/wiki/Requirements:-Installation

h2. About the stylesheet override

You can override any of the following stylesheet files by placing your own copy inside /stylesheets/custom/:
* *base.css:* Contains all main tags such as body, p, h1 etc
* *main.css:* Contains all global CSS settings for classes specific to the layout
* *page.css:* Contains all styles specific for the detail view of a page
* *post.css:* Contains all styles specific for the detail view of a post
* *profile.css:* Contains all styles specific for the detail view of a profile
* *static.css:* Used for all pages with static content such as the terms of use
* *style.css:* Miscellaneous styles for things such as lists. This will be broken down later on when I have the complete HTML theming ready.

If you want to add a stylesheet overriding just add a file named as above. If you create a file in the custom directory, Simple Blog will *not* include the default defined stylesheets. 

*Tip:* If you choose to customize the styles, copy and paste the corresponding stylesheet from /stylesheets/ to make sure you have all the necessary styles defined.

h2. Contact

If you have any questions or comments, send an email to webmaster@sundelof.com